What is the role of the management of the company?
After we have developed a list of key indicators and reports that we need to understand what is going on in the business,
we usually carry out financial structuring of our company.
In the management accounting there is a concept of financial structure.
It is a combination of the financial responsibilities centers, so-called CFOs, and so-called internal or transfer centers.
In fact, we are trying to determine to what extent the structural divisions of the company are to blame in the size of individual articles, reports on profits and losses of the business as a whole.
The costs, which we see in the reports on profits and losses, arise everywhere.
Accordingly, all structural subdivisions of the company are the centers of costs, because they have a certain budget,
and having signed it with blood, they promised to fit into this budget.
But it is clear that in addition to the fact that they must fit into the budget, they must ensure the achievement of some goals in terms of quality and time.
But since some structural divisions, in addition to costs, also have income,
these structural divisions are not considered as the centers of costs, but as the centers of so-called gross income or as the centers of profits.
Theoretically, the company can also be a so-called center of income, or centers of income.
This does not mean that these structural divisions have no costs.
It just means that they cannot actively influence any article.
In one trading company, I was shown a financial structure in which the shops selling shoes are listed as the centers of income.
According to the management, there is not a single article of costs that the head of the store and his employees could influence to some extent.
That is, the store is already rented, the place is chosen, it is rented, there is a repair,
which tile will be on the floor, the management of the store did not discuss it.
The goods were purchased in China at the prices at which the central office decided to do it.
The staff was hired and we set up a salary, which is approved by the manager on the staff.
The manual was handed out in which everything was described in detail,
up to the indication of what kind of tree should be on the shop's shop window from October to February.
In general, everything is explained in detail in the manual.
If the head of the store and his employees will follow this manual, these rules, this corporate standard, then their income will be large.
If they do not follow it, then the income may be less.
But they did not find a single article of costs that the store employee or the head of the store could influence.
There is an article of theft, the loss of goods from the store.
In this company, this is not an article of costs of the company, this is an article of costs of the staff.
That is, all the loss of goods from the store is from the personal pocket of the employees who work in the store.
But arguing with the management of the company, it can be assumed that the store employees can accidentally or deliberately touch the glass cabinet in the store,
on which there are shoes. The glass cabinet will fall, the glass will break and additional costs will arise for this store.
It seems to me that to some extent, the structural division in which some income arises can always influence its costs.
In my understanding, this store should be the center of the shaft income.
The center of the shaft income, as we see in this slide, is a structural division through which we monitor its income and direct costs.
That is, those that arise in this center of financial responsibility.
For some part of the article of costs, it can be responsible, actively influencing it.
For some part, it is not. But these are so-called direct uncontrolled costs.
These are the costs that can be attributed to this division, because they arose there.
But due to a number of reasons, this structural division does not manage the costs in any way.
They are managed by someone up there, some kind of corporate center, but not a structural division.
If we designate a particular division of the company as the center of profit,
this means that the degree of impact on the costs is quite large.
The structural division manages both its direct costs and the size of indirect costs,
general corporate costs that came to this structural division from some corporate center.
Usually, the centers of profit exist in divisional organizations,
when there is a management company or some kind of corporate center and a relatively independent business unit.
We can calculate the income of this division of the shaft, the revenue minus the direct costs,
and then break the corporate orange, tangerine or grapefruit.
You understand that the size of the fruits is different.
This is the size of the general corporate costs, which we then divide into these centers of profit.
To evaluate them not by the shaft income, but by the final financial result, by the profit.
We will talk about the methods of division of oranges, tangerines, and grapefruits later.
It is important to understand that the center of profit differs from the center of shaft income
because the results of its work are evaluated by the final financial result.
After we have put some part of the general corporate costs on this division,
and most likely it actively participated in this process,
most likely it was invited to discuss the budgets of the corporate center,
and discuss the methods by which the costs of the corporate center will be distributed between the divisions.
The financial structure usually involves the use of so-called internal prices.
In the management account, they are also called transfer.
I would like to dwell on this in more detail and discuss a number of examples of the use of internal prices
in the companies of the most different industries, between the most different structural divisions.
The first example is the relationship between the production division and the division that deals with the marketing and sales.
The main element of the financial structure of the company is the so-called internal or transfer prices.
There are several examples on this slide, each of which I want to tell in more detail.
We will discuss the problems of the internal price between the production and the household,
divisions between two production structures,
when one production passes its product to another production at a certain internal price.
The third case is the relationship between the transport service and the trading within the company.
The fourth case is the purchase and production.
The fifth case is when we have a corporate center, which includes several internal services,
for example, IT, accounting, corporate, corporate business, corporate HR, corporate HR,
and these four internal services provide internal services to each other,
as well as to individual business units, A, B and C.
And the last situation is when the business units themselves are in some internal trade.
The A division sells something to external customers,
and also sells the same thing to internal customers of the B division within the same holding.
So, the first example is here on the flip chart.
Two companies that have faced the same problem.
What should be the price at which the product from the production CFO of the financial responsibility center
will be moved to the household CFO of the household financial responsibility center?
That is, there is a production site that, at a certain internal accounting price,
transfers the product of its labor to the service that deals with marketing and sales.
The question is at what price.
Let's assume that in the first case we are talking about the issue of office furniture.
The financial director offers the following scheme.
He offers the production CFO, under the strictest control of the administration,
to calculate its material costs.
That is, when an order comes to the production site for a certain collection of furniture,
the production must calculate its material costs.
How much material will be spent.
Moreover, the message is as follows.
The material costs in this company are already almost optimized.
That is, discounts for all suppliers have already been knocked out,
the share of marriage is almost zero, there are very few expenses.
In general, the cost of materials is worked out almost 100%.
And under the control of the financial director,
the manufacturers calculate their material costs.
Here they are.
After that, the financial director allows them to multiply the material costs by 2.5.
For example, 2.5.
And in the end, the internal price is obtained.
Here it is.
Blue.
The cost of materials is multiplied by a coefficient of 2.5.
No matter what happens, the collection of furniture will follow from this CFO to this CFO.
But what, in addition to the materials, does this price include?
The price also includes the salary.
Here it is.
This is the salary.
In addition to the materials.
And it also includes other production costs.
I will write here the salary.
Here I will write the other production costs.
This is electricity consumption, repair, maintenance of equipment, lighting, heating, amortization.
In general, all the costs that occur in production.
We see that if in this period the production is processed with such costs,
then the balance of this unit is registered by the financial director.
Here it is.
This is the profit.
By subtracting the actual costs from the calculated internal price,
the price is formed according to the scheme of the cost of materials, multiplied by 2.5.
What happens to this profit?
Let's say the size of this profit is not very small,
and the production worked well,
therefore, 20% of this amount, the financial director allows you to spend on beer.
That is, as an additional bonus to the salary.
You can't spend everything on beer, because you need to think about tomorrow.
80% of this margin goes to the production reserve fund.
What kind of fund?
It is necessary to periodically update the equipment,
periodically do repairs, paint the walls, and so on.
80% goes to the development of production.
If in the next period the production works worse,
the other production costs are already such,
then on the balance sheet of the production, the financial director registers the profit again.
But this profit is already smaller.
Since it is small, only 2% of the margin for beer,
and 98% of the small margin goes to the production reserve fund.
Maybe the period when the other production costs will be like this.
Everything coincided with the amount that we calculated by multiplying the material costs by 2.5%.
The margin for the production reserve fund is fixed at 0.
There is nothing for beer, nothing for development.
And the worst situation is when the production is processed with steel production costs equal to this value.
I think you guessed that the marketing of the products takes the product at this price.
By the math of costs, multiplied by 2.5.
This value is registered on the balance sheet of the production as a loss.
And after that, the stage of the analysis of flights begins.
It is clear that it is necessary to analyze why this negative margin arose.
Because of their inefficiency or force majeure.
How can the matter end?
From a light and suffocating conversation in the office of the general director to dismissal.
But the marketing of the products does not suffer.
You understand that he takes the collection of furniture for production at the agreed price.
The margin for the production is multiplied by 2.5%.
It can be assumed that in this scheme, in the interests of the manufacturers,
blow up the material costs and then multiply them by 2.5%.
But no one will let them do this, because the material costs are calculated under the control of the financial director.
I can't say that the scheme is universal for everyone, but in certain companies it will be good.
The second business is the same problem.
The relationship between production and the service of marketing of the products is not furniture, but paint.
A newly created enterprise, a newly created platform,
consists of a fairly large international concern with an office in Germany.
The Germans in the central office report that the production site forms the following price for the production structures.
This is the raw material plus 9 euros in the account for the tone.
If you enter 9 euros in the account for the tone, you can add 7% to this amount.
This will be the price at which the production, which makes the paint,
transfers this paint to the marketing department of the S&B.
Since the newly created company does not have all the necessary competencies,
does not understand the kitchen yet, does not understand how the gears are connected to each other,
at the first stages it can turn out that a large amount of money is spent on mixing paint in barrels,
and in the account for the tone it turned out to be 12 euros, sometimes 11 euros.
But the company has gradually reached the level of 9 euros per tone, as it was brought in from Germany.
These are all costs that arise in production without taking into account the raw materials.
They all have to fall into the norm, 9 euros per tone.
As soon as the company falls into this norm, it counts the maximum costs,
plus 9 euros per tone, and adds 7% to this amount of its internal margin,
as a bonus to the premium fund.
We understand that until it has learned to do this, it still transfers its product to the production structures at what price?
Raw materials plus 9 euros per tone.
This amount is recorded as its loss.
These are two examples of the relationship between the production piece of the business and the part that deals with marketing and sales.
The second example is the relationship between two production companies.
The company is the same inside, the company is the same legal entity.
The territory between the hangars is 30 meters.
This hangar specializes in the production of windows, a wooden window at the exit.
This is a kind of a pre-building to it, another hangar, in which a log is fed to the entrance,
the log is cut into boards, this is a sawing section.
Then the boards are dried on a drying site, and then a glued log is made of the dried boards.
A glued log is a semi-finished product that is used to make windows, but it can be sold to the side.
Initially, the company was created to make windows, and this was considered as a supporting production unit.
But over time, employees who work in this unit realized that they can squeeze more from the available capacities.
Their results are consumed in this unit, and they can fully meet the needs of this production.
In addition, they can sell some additional volume to the side.
On average, the picture is as follows.
70% of the volume of the glued log is consumed here, and 30% is sold to external customers.
The prices on the market are approximately 49.5-50.5 conditional cash marks.
We consider the economy, we consider the cost.
The accounting service, having calculated all the costs in this production hangar,
and dividing it by the number of cubic meters, gets 40 conditional cash marks per cubic meter.
This is the production cost of one cubic meter of glued log, the final product of this hangar.
The company also has an administration, IT people, security service, accounting, deputy director of organizational development, etc.
They cost money, and by some cunning calculations, we add 3 conditional cash marks to the production cost.
This is the production cost, and this is the administrative cost added to the production cost.
In addition, the company also has a marketing service, and there are also some costs.
And from the total amount, we add 2 U of conditional cash marks to the glued log.
In total, we get the full cost of a cubic meter of glued log, which is equal to 45 conditional cash marks.
So, the production cost is 40, the total cost is 45, taking into account the administration,
and taking into account the fact that it must be reached for the maintenance of the marketing service.
The question arises, how much does it cost in the internal accounting?
One cubic meter of glued log will move from this CFO to another.
Why are we doing this? In order to assess the economic efficiency of structural units.
No one prevents us from building a small program in Microsoft Excel in the accounting,
and to drive the glued log here, into the window, at the average market price,
which is equal to 49.5-50.5.
But at the same time, we can take into account a number of other factors.
The fact that they can drink among themselves at one corporate party,
I think, is not necessary to be taken into account here.
What factor should be taken into account here?
The fact that this CFO is a large, permanent client.
This unit here regularly takes 70% of the total volume, and does it regularly.
Therefore, it may require a discount to a large, permanent client.
In my opinion, we here should sell the glued log for 49.
Why 49? We are pushing the average price on the market for such a product,
but taking into account other factors, namely, a discount to a large, permanent client.
This is done in order to assess the economic efficiency of this structural unit.
We believe that the efficiency of the company as a whole
is based on the efficiency of the work of individual structural units.
Sometimes the question arises, will the windows not turn golden,
if each alteration in the composition of this chain will add a margin?
No, it will not.
I, as a client who buys a window here, do not care how they share the overall margin of the company by alterations.
They will generate a margin at the end of the chain,
or some piece of margin here, here, here, here, here.
I, as a client, do not care.
We are talking about how we share the overall margin of the company by alterations.
It may be that some of the company's units are profitable,
or some are very profitable, but we must understand this.
What does the picture look like in our business at some point in time?
Another example of this, of the relationship between two production structures, will be on the next diagram.
Another example on this topic,
the relationship between two production structures in the same business.
But here is a small nuance, two different lawyers,
and we know that internal transfer prices are sometimes used to optimize some tax schemes.
Here, again, is an attempt to assess the economic efficiency of two structural units.
In this diagram, we see that we are talking about the production of a car.
The car is produced here at the factory, at the assembly plant,
where all the necessary components arrive, which are then connected to the finished product, called a car.
There are external suppliers, and there is an internal supplier, which is part of the concern.
At this factory, the engine is produced.
This engine comes here, it arrives, as agreed, at 8.32,
and the engine completely suits this internal client in terms of quality,
in terms of certain characteristics of the engine quality.
That is, at two angles of three, we put a plus,
we are completely satisfied with the terms as an internal client,
and we are completely satisfied with the quality.
But the third angle of expenditure is a question.
This structural unit has to pay an internal price
that exceeds the price of external potential suppliers by some percentage.
This part of the company went to the stores.
Here is a supplier, here is a supplier, here is a supplier, and here is a supplier,
who are ready to supply at 8.32,
ready to supply the product of the level of quality that is needed here,
and ready to supply it at a price less than the costs that arise here.
Having learned about this situation, the factory number two
appeals to the administration with the following proposal.
Allow them to buy on the side, because the internal price is too high.
They do not want to receive a lower salary, a lower profit,
a lower bonus from the profit, paying for the inefficiency of this first factory.
In Germany, there is a proverb, in Russian it sounds like this,
that you can eat outside, but you have to eat at home.
This is what the administration said to this second factory,
but with a condition that this principle will apply for the next 365 days.
If after 365 days the administration and the factory number one
do not find ways to reduce the price of the engine,
that is, after 365 days, this unit will be officially allowed to buy it on the side.
If he, as a process manager, takes responsibility for the overall characteristics of the car.
But in this company, the situation was corrected,
and after 365 days, the factory number two remained,
because he was able to reduce the price of the engine
and at the same level to make his product cheaper
and satisfy the internal customer in all three corners,
the cost and time of quality.
The next example is the relationship between the purchasing structures and the production structures.
Imagine that we are talking about a construction company,
which consists of three brigades that work on different objects,
performing construction and installation work.
There is a central material and technical supply base,
on which these brigades order the materials they need to perform work next week.
The material and technical supply base believes that all orders should be made before 11.30 on Thursday,
so that it is convenient for it to buy everything in a slow mode.
The brigades do not see any problems in submitting an application after lunch on Thursday and after lunch on Friday,
and want the base to be able to buy everything,
so that on Monday they have a bag of cement on the site.
There is a conflict in the company,
with their arguments the base goes to the management,
and with their arguments the brigades go to the management.
Having listened to both sides, the management came up with a scheme,
as a result of which the position of the material and technical supply base changed radically.
It began to say,
Dear internal clients,
I am already at work on Saturday from 8 am to 10 pm,
ready to accept your orders.
If you order something from me on Saturday,
then on Monday it will be on your site.
The scheme is based on the fact that an internal price was introduced,
tied to time.
That is, the price for resources,
if they submit an application on Wednesday and before lunch on Thursday,
is the smallest,
and this is in the interests of the brigades.
If they can implement their planning in such a way
to submit applications in advance,
they can take the resource at a minimum price.
If they do not have time to submit an application after lunch on Thursday,
or after lunch on Friday,
or on Saturday,
then the prices are higher.
This is the first element of the scheme.
The second element of the scheme is based on the statement,
that the authorities are absolutely corrupt.
Therefore, the management of the company considers it reasonable
to create another structural division called the procurement.
This is procurement number 2,
and this is procurement number 1.
The second structure, which deals with procurement,
appears in the company.
These three brigades have the option of choice.
They can buy a resource on this basis,
and on this basis,
which, in principle, competes with each other.
Can they agree with each other?
Probably yes.
There is a possibility of this.
Nevertheless, the scheme we see here
assumes that the prices for internal resources are tied to time,
and the brigade has the option of choosing
whether to apply for procurement number 1
or procurement number 2.
The next example is the relationship
between the transport structure and the shops
within the trading company.
This transport service within the company
was either inside or outsourcing,
then again inside, then again outsourcing.
And the last decision of the financial director
is to pay the transport service a fixed percentage of the revenue,
and how it will be spent,
this is already the business of the transport service.
As a result, the financial director began to notice the following.
The transport service began to buy trailers,
because from point A to point B
you can just drag a truck,
or you can take a truck with a trailer.
If you take a truck with a trailer, it turns out cheaper.
The transport service began to use
so-called vertical pallets,
because it fits more than the horizontal pallets of the product.
And the transport service also bought software
in order to plan its transport routes,
and spend less.
If it spends less,
it will earn internal profit,
which it will spend on its own needs.
The next example of the use of internal prices
is the relationship between the divisions
within the holding
and the services of the managing company,
which sells, in fact, the internal service.
But imagine that we are talking about the IT department,
which serves internal clients.
The divisions themselves act as internal clients,
and some other services of the corporate center,
such as accounting,
the department of controlling,
the service of managing personnel, and so on.
In this case,
you can use a methodology
based on the chronometering of working time.
As a rule,
this is without extra fanaticism,
without a stopwatch,
but in the large cell we can understand
how much time
the IT department spends
for a certain month
during the first half of the year
on the needs of internal clients.
After this analytical work,
we get the following figures.
The IT department spends
an average of 20% of its time
on this internal client,
on this division.
This department spends 10%
and this department spends 10%.
The internal clients
of the corporate center
spend 5% of their time on the managers,
5% on the IT department,
5% on the department of controlling,
10% on the accounting,
and 20% on the rest of the internal clients.
But if we add all this up,
we get 80%.
So where is the other 20%
of the total IT department's time?
These are general corporate needs,
for example,
installing filters
that do not allow viruses into the company,
monitoring and managing
the corporate website,
participating in tenders
for the purchase of ERP systems,
or improving the qualifications.
But what does this method suggest?
It suggests
the distribution of all costs
in the IT department
by these three divisions.
Because it will go on
to the product portfolio
of business unit A,
to the product portfolio of business unit B,
and we will distribute
a certain percentage of IT department's costs
in a very reasonable way,
in proportion to the time.
And the rest will come to the load
in the form of the so-called subscription fee.
This method is quite expensive
from the point of view of operation,
but it allows you to make
a very reasonable share of costs.
My experience suggests
that, in principle,
this can be done once every six months.
For six months,
you can not return to these percentages,
and after the first six months,
the session can be reviewed
a little bit,
so that they are fixed again
for the next six months.
Another example of internal costs.
This time, the relationship
between the structural units
within the company
is built on the division principle.
That is, there is an administration,
there are three relatively
independent business units.
They are related to each other,
and they work with external clients.
After a while,
their own bank appears in the company,
a separate business unit,
which works with external clients
by 12-13 percent.
This is money for the market,
it is sold to external clients.
And this is how
the management of the company
works with external clients.
And this is how
the management of the company
works with external clients.
And these three structures
are used by the management of the company.
If you need money,
please buy it in your bank,
and you will pay
this percentage.
That is, the bank sells
money to its colleagues
more expensively
than to external clients.
What are the reasons?
Maybe there is some kind of tax scheme,
maybe not.
But if we do not touch this topic,
then what are the other reasons?
For example, the desire of the management
of the company to support
young business units at the first stages.
These are the older brothers and sisters,
and this is the younger one,
who is still small,
and in order for him to become stronger,
he needs to be helped,
he needs to be fed.
Or what is the reason?
When we send money to some external banks,
we have to prepare a lot of documents,
business plans, get ratings,
create an accounting with MSFO,
and so on.
And when we send money to our own bank,
we get money quickly,
but we have to pay for it.
So the internal price
is a fairly broad concept.
It can be the equal price
of the costs in this unit.
This price can be higher
than the costs in this unit.
But, as a rule,
when we generate an internal price,
we rely on market prices,
on comparable goods,
on comparable services in the market.
And the main purpose of all these schemes
is to evaluate the economic efficiency
of the structural unit.
We can do this only after we drive
resources into this structural unit
at a market price,
or sell the product
at a price comparable to the average.
And this is the main goal.
You have an example in your report
of the financial structure
of a company that produces bicycles.
I would like to give a small comment
to this example.
How do these figures
that we see in this table work?
Imagine that the company
was cut into parts
and made into two groups of CFO.
Two sub-units
fell into the service category.
This is a repair unit,
and the second sub-unit
fell into the service category.
This is a repair service and a transport service.
And five sub-units
fell into the main category of CFO.
This is a warehouse,
workshop number one,
where parts for bicycles are produced,
workshop number two,
where ready-made products are assembled,
the company's administration,
and the structure dealing with the product.
What is the difference
between the main and the service CFO?
The service CFO sells its product
to the main CFO.
The main CFO
adds the costs
received from the service CFO
to the costs of the main CFO.
The main CFO gets the total cost
and then divides it
by the product portfolio.
The product portfolio of the company
is quite simple.
There are standard bicycles
and luxury bicycles.
The product portfolio
consists of two products.
Let's look at the table
on this slide.
We see that
the company
has
divided the costs
by the structural sub-units.
The company has
material costs and
the product portfolio.
These are two articles
that can be attributed
to these two products.
The material costs
can be seen in the product portfolio.
The total amount of material costs
is 118,000
at the business level.
The product salary
is 90,000.
We see that some of the materials
were used in the workshop
where the parts were made,
and some in the workshop
where the assembly was made.
All other articles of costs
are indirect.
We see that
the material costs are
the electricity used in the company,
the insurance payments,
the amortization of some
basic means,
and other articles.
These articles of costs
are listed in the first column
of articles 3, 4, 5, 6, and 7.
We need to look
at these articles of costs
in the CFO.
We see it in the lines
3-7.
We see how much
the repair service costs,
the transport service,
the warehouse,
the workshop 1, the workshop 2,
and the administration of sales.
We see it in the line 8.
These are the initial costs
of structural components.
The initial costs are the costs
that were initially generated.
After that, in the lines 9 and 10,
we see the internal distribution
of the costs of the repair service
and the transport service
by the internal clients,
that is, by the main CFO.
First, let's look at the repair service.
The repair service costs the company
28,000 conditional cash marks.
This is the sum of the salary
and all other articles of costs
that have arisen in the repair unit
during this period.
On some basis,
for example, it can be the repair of the watch,
we distributed these 28,000
to the transport service,
and all other costs went to the main CFO,
to the warehouse, to the workshop 1,
to the second, to the administration, to the sales.
At the second stage,
we distribute the costs of the transport service.
Initially, there were costs
equal to 15,000,
but given that the repair workers
visited the transport service,
1,000 of the costs
that arose in the repair service
are added, we divide it by 16,000.
On some basis, the costs of the transport service
are distributed among the internal clients.
Between the warehouse,
the workshop 1, the workshop 2, the administration, and the sales.
It is assumed that
all departments
used the services of the transport service.
If someone did not use it,
then there will be 0 in this cell.
And after that,
in the 11th line,
we see how much the warehouse costs,
the workshop 1, the workshop 2, the administration, and the sales,
given that they bought
repair services and transport
services,
these are the so-called primary
plus secondary costs.
The secondary costs are bought on the internal market.
After that,
the total amount of costs
that arose in the warehouse,
in the first workshop, in the second workshop,
in the administration, and in the sales,
we must divide
by the product portfolio.
That is, the costs of the warehouse are divided
between the standard bicycles
and the luxury class bicycles.
The costs of the first workshop, the costs of the second,
the administration, and the sales must also be divided
into two parts.
Some part will fall on the standard bicycles,
and some on the luxury.
We want this base,
the distribution base, to be
inexpensive and very adequate.
Usually, there are not so many
such bases,
most of them are either expensive in terms of operation
or not very adequate.
The more expensive the base, the more adequate it is,
and vice versa.
In this example, we see that the financial director
of the company is going to divide the costs
that arose in the warehouse
35,400
by the product portfolio
proportional to the costs.
The more expensive the bicycles
are in terms of material costs,
the more they will be spent
on the warehouse.
If the luxury bicycle is made of gold
and platinum, then the lion's share
of the costs that arose in the warehouse
will be spent on the luxury bicycle.
The base may not be very adequate,
but it is inexpensive.
The first and the second workshops
will divide their costs
in the product portfolio
proportional to the total salary
paid in the workshop.
The administration and the sales
will divide their costs
in the product portfolio
proportional to the total production cost.
We must calculate
the direct costs,
i.e. the material and the product salary,
and add up the costs
that arose in the warehouse
in the first and the second workshops.
We will get the total production cost.
We will know how much it is
in terms of standard and luxury,
and in this proportion
we will divide the costs of the administration and sales.
In the last line
of this table,
we see the calculation of the so-called
indirect costs.
It is obtained by dividing the line 11,
i.e. the costs that are to be divided,
into the size of the distribution base.
Each time it is different.
In the case of the warehouse,
the size of the distribution base
is the direct cost.
In the case of the first workshop,
it is the total salary of this workshop.
In the case of the second workshop,
And in the case of the administration and sales,
we said that
the distribution base is the total production cost.
How to calculate it?
It is very simple.
We need to add up the materials,
the total salary,
and the costs that arose in the warehouse,
in the first and the second workshops.
These are the three workshops
related to the production sector.
After that,
we will calculate the additional costs
that are used in the system of calculation.
It seems to me that
this kind of work will be useful
for any business.
To get such a table,
you need to divide your business
into CFOs,
form a group of main CFOs,
these are the structures that
will divide their costs
directly into the product portfolio.
And a group of service CFOs,
these are the departments that will sell
their services to internal clients
at a certain price.
In this case, we see that the price is equal to the cost.
This is a private case,
but it is possible.
But there are two questions here.
What should be the distribution base
of the costs of the service CFOs
per main CFO,
and what should be the distribution base
of the costs of the main CFOs
per product portfolio?
The next very important section
of the accounting management system
in the company is accounting policy.
Accounting policy is the collection
of basic rules,
canons,
principles, instructions
on the calculation of certain figures
in the balance of the account
of the product portfolio.
The main policy of the company
is to collect the main rules
and the main principles
of the accounting system.
We will discuss the main principles
of accounting policy
in the next section.
We will start with the money.
In the usual accounting policy,
it is important to talk about
how we treat the money transfer.
Our branch in the city of X
sent money to the central office.
It seems like it was sent,
but it was not sent.
It was sent to the central office
and it was not sent.
It seems like it was sent,
but it was not sent.
The second situation is that
the client in the city of X
sent us money,
but it was not sent to the central office.
The first situation is
the money transfer
to the general amount of money.
The second situation is
the debt of the debitor.
If we read the International Standard
of Financial Accounting,
it is an idea like the equivalents
of money.
These are high-liquid securities.
If we have them,
we are sure that we can
quickly convert them into real money.
MSFO recommends
to add them to real money.
Another point is the exchange rate.
The company can have
a lot of currencies.
It is important to think about
the exchange rate
of the currency
of the management account.
Such things are usually discussed
in accounting policy
on money.
Next, the financial investment.
It is the next position
in the management balance.
The company can have financial investments
and it is important to understand
the entry price
at which it appears in the balance.
For example, we bought
100 shares of a company
at a certain price,
100 euros,
and we paid 20 euros
of additional expenses
to the agents
who helped us to buy the shares.
Then the shares
that are in the balance
change their price.
In September,
the exchange rate of the company
we bought the shares was 99,
then it dropped to 98 in October,
then it rose sharply to 103,
then it dropped to 101 euros.
We have to write in the accounting policy
how we deal with all this
in the management account.
As for the additional expenses
that we incur
when buying securities,
most likely they do not appear in the balance,
they appear in the balance of profits and losses
of the period in which we bought it.
In the balance, securities
are inserted at the purchase price.
And then, when the exchange rate changes,
we follow it and choose
the exchange rate for the end of the month,
or we choose the smallest of the two.
The price of the purchase of securities
or the exchange rate for a specific date.
If we follow the principles of pessimism,
this is a very important principle
when evaluating assets,
then we must evaluate
our financial investments
at the smallest of the two,
the price of the purchase,
or the current exchange rate.
Accordingly, if the price of the purchase
was 100 euros,
and if we bought
the current exchange rate of 97 euros,
then we multiply 97
by the number of shares,
because it is less than the price of the purchase.
Next, the debitory debt.
It is very important
to think about the reserve
for a hopeless and dubious
debitory debt in the company.
For these purposes, it is usually recommended
to divide the debitory debt into separate types,
for example, by age or geography,
and to form,
based on the statistics of previous periods,
a reserve for a hopeless
and dubious debitory debt
of each type.
The older the debitory, the more the reserve.
You can subtract these amounts
from the amount of the debitory
and send it to the account of profits and losses
and other expenses.
In the balance, the debitory
will hang in the management account
already below the minus of the percentage
of hopeless or dubious debts.
Some companies evaluate their debitory
at the factoring price,
that is, at the price at which
the debitory debt can be sold to the bank.
The principle here is simple.
Any asset costs as much
as it can be sold.
Accordingly, the debitory costs as much
as it can be sold to the bank.
Another very important point
about the debitory is the so-called
ABC classification.
Recalling the Pareto principle,
we can assume that
80% of the total
amount of the debitory debt
is 20% of the total
from the long list.
The rest of the debt
is 20%
of the total
amount of the debitory debt
from the long list of 80% of the debitory debt.
This principle is very useful
when making management reports
on the same debitory.
We show the leadership
most likely group A in full list,
and group B and C
in the folded form
of the total amount.
Next, the advance payments.
The company can issue advance payments,
and, accordingly, the question arises
how to take them into account in the management report.
If the company has a problem
that we issued some amount of money
to the supplier in the form of an advance payment,
he sent the goods to me,
but we still managed to return the money.
But the money today and the money the day after
are different money,
and the company has a concept of the cost of money in time.
Accordingly, if the company
periodically has such problems,
then it must provide a reserve
for the aging of the money
in the advance payments.
We still manage to get the money,
but there is a concept of the cost of money in time,
and the money that we got from the supplier
90 days later is no longer equal to today's money.
The money was lost in the price,
and the reserve for the depreciation of money
in the advance payments
is useful in the management report.
The next section of the balance sheet is the reserves.
Let's assume that we are dealing
with a production company.
In a production company,
there are three types of reserves.
These are raw materials and components,
unfinished production,
and ready-made production.
In accounting, it is important to talk
about the reserves of raw materials
and components, the input price,
and the price at which it appears in the balance sheet.
This can be the price of acquisition
plus regular logistical costs.
We should not put it into balance
irregular, some extreme events
at the customs, or in the process of transportation
some extreme events occurred.
We should not put it into balance.
We should take this into account
in the period in which
we paid these extreme expenses.
The consumption standards of resources
are an important point
that is important to think about
in accounting.
The order of writing resources
from the production warehouses.
There are several schemes.
There is a so-called FIFO scheme.
It is First In First Out.
The first to be written off
is what came to the warehouse first.
The reverse procedure is called LIFO.
Last In First Out.
The first to be taken from the warehouse
is what came to the warehouse last.
There are two methods
related to the price of acquisition.
They are called HIFO and LOFO.
HIFO is Highest In First Out.
The first to be written off
is what was bought at the most expensive price.
The reverse scheme is LOFO.
Lost In First Out.
The first to be written off
is what was bought at the cheapest price.
There is an option
that the first to be taken from the warehouse
is what came closest
to the expiration of the expiration date.
And as an option,
there is an average scheme.
We consider the average option.
All these options are possible.
It is just important to understand
which of these options
will be acceptable to us.
In international financial reports,
it is recommended to use either FIFO,
that is, the first to come and the first to leave,
or the average option.
Another important point
is the inventory of stocks in the warehouse
and, accordingly, re-evaluation of
problematic positions and non-liquids.
If something is not in the warehouse
or if something in the warehouse
has lost its properties
completely or partially,
or simply went out of fashion,
or was simply bought for the product
that was already removed from production,
it will most likely be evaluated as a non-liquid,
and the price for this non-liquid
may be less than the price
at which it was bought.
Accordingly, the management account
will hang at the price at which we can sell
if it is less than the price
at which it was bought.
Another important point
is the resources in the warehouse,
but there are no necessary papers
that confirm the fact of purchase.
Either there are no stamps,
or there are no signatures.
But in the management account,
we remember that the principle of priority
over the form works.
Accordingly, the paper is not so important,
the fact of having resources in the warehouse
is important.
Further, the stock of unfinished production.
It is very important to think
that the article of costs included
in the base assessment of the stocks
of unfinished production is not included.
If you read the International Financial Report
of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs,
it is recommended to assess
the unfinished product lying in the warehouse
according to the production costs,
exclusively according to the production costs.
That is, not a single euro-value,
the costs incurred in the administration
or in the service of marketing and sales
should not participate
in the assessment of the stocks
of unfinished production.
And the finished product, by the way,
which should also be taken into account
according to the production costs.
If everything is fine with it,
if something is wrong with it,
then it is usually recommended
to choose the least of the two,
the production cost or the price
of the possible implementation.
If we can sell the finished product
lying in the warehouse at a price
lower than the production cost,
not to mention the full one,
then we should assess this finished product
according to the price of the implementation.
The least of the two.
The production cost and the price of the implementation.
As for the unfinished production,
imagine that we are talking about windows.
At the entrance we have quite nice boards,
quite nice furniture,
quite nice glass.
At the exit we have a quite nice window.
The unfinished production
is basically wood.
A little stained with paint
pieces of wood,
somehow connected together.
In principle, the buyer
probably cannot find anything
like that.
If we are going to finish this order further,
then we assess it
according to the production cost.
However, if we do not finish the order
for some reason,
we must assess it at the price of firewood.
But as a rule, the unfinished production
is assessed according to the production cost.
As well as the finished product,
if there are no problems with it.
If there are some problems with it,
we suspect that it will not be in demand
on the market,
we must assess it according to the least of the two.
The production cost or the price of the implementation.
Material assets
that consist of equipment,
transport, office equipment, furniture, etc.
What is important here
to think about in accounting policy?
Firstly, it is important to think about
the value-added limit of recognition.
That is, starting from what amount
a certain position of our assets
falls into the list of the main assets.
But it all depends on the company's turnover.
The largest figure that I have seen
in my practice is 20,000 euros.
That is, one large production company
auditors officially allowed
not to include in the list of main assets
objects that cost
less than 20,000 euros.
That is, it all goes into the period
in which it was bought.
According to the MFO.
In the management account,
we ourselves decide
what the value-added limit will be.
I repeat, it all depends on the turnover.
Because in a small hairdresser's
20,000 euros is one thing,
and in a large machine-building holding
20,000 euros is quite different.
So, the auditors may allow
a large machine-building holding
not to include in the list of main assets
positions that cost
less than 20,000 euros,
because for them it is a penny.
And they can relate it to the period.
And in the management account,
even 500 euros is a very large amount.
Therefore, everything above 500 euros
in this small hairdresser's
can be the main asset.
Further, the next point.
When we think about the so-called
amortization, we must understand
what we will amortize.
The cost of purchase,
or the so-called recovery cost.
What is it?
Well, imagine that we are talking
about the release of windows
and when the window is produced,
a calibration-grinding machine
is used,
which was bought for 15,000 euros
and the estimated operating period
is 5 years.
We can amortize 15,000 euros
evenly or not
during this five-year period.
But we ask ourselves,
how much will such a calibration-grinding machine
cost in 5 years,
when we will change this one
to a new version.
We call the company
in which this machine was bought
and ask them,
dear suppliers,
how much will such a machine
cost in 5 years
when we come to you again
and buy a new version.
They will say that about 20,000 euros
will cost a new version,
because the new version of the machine
will consume less electricity,
will be faster to reconfigure
from one product to another,
will have less manual labor,
and will have a new design,
a pretty yellow color,
so the new version will cost
about 20,000 euros.
Accordingly, in the management account
we can amortize 20,000 euros.
The estimated cost,
not the one we paid
for this device
when we bought it.
The alternative option
is to amortize 15,000 euros,
and the remaining 5,000 euros
is accumulated through the reserves,
which we form
to modernize the main park.
The service life, the amortization life.
As a rule, the amortization life
should not be longer than the service life,
than the operating life.
It can be less, but it should not be more.
And we, in fact,
in the accounting policy of the management account,
decide for ourselves
for what period we will amortize
the cost of the main means.
Amortization method.
It can be linear,
when we spread it evenly,
it can be non-linear.
As in the case of a car,
if we assume that the car
loses a lot of cost in the first years of its operation,
and then loses less,
then we can use a non-linear method
for a car or some other similar main means.
As for repairs,
sometimes we have to do repairs
of the main means,
which can be divided into two parts,
cosmetic and cardinal.
The cost of cosmetic repairs
is usually not added to the cost of the main means,
but is related to the period consumption.
The cost of cardinal repairs
is still added to the cost of the main means
in the balance,
because these are quite large sums.
And revaluation of their reserves.
Periodically we should
re-evaluate our main means,
ask ourselves how much we can sell them today,
ask ourselves
how seriously they lost
their properties in the process of operation,
in order to have real figures
in our management balance.
Here is a very useful idea about C-analysis,
because the list of main means
can be very long,
it can be a thick folder.
But according to the Pareto principle,
80% of all this folder
is divided into a 20% list.
80% of the cost of the main means
is 20% of the list.
It is this limited list
that we can re-evaluate for a small amount of money,
and we will hardly re-evaluate the rest of the list,
because it is not worth it.
The biggest problem
in accounting policy
of the management balance
is the evaluation of non-material assets.
The evaluation of non-material assets,
that is, assets that cannot be touched.
What can be attributed to this category?
We can attribute all kinds of patents,
know-how, licenses,
software,
brand,
client base,
management systems
that we have set up in the company,
for example, the quality management system,
the accounting budget management system,
the CRM system, and so on.
All this is very difficult to evaluate in euros,
or in dollars, or in rubles.
But you can try to do it
by applying the so-called cost method.
Just add up all the costs
that we have incurred
to create this non-material asset.
After that, we will get
the preliminary amount of our balance.
Let's look at this scheme.
We evaluated our material assets,
our stocks, our main assets,
and so on.
We evaluated our financial assets,
money, debit, financial investments,
and so on.
And now we evaluate our non-material assets
using the cost method.
We evaluate all of them.
We get the preliminary balance.
After that,
we need to read
the literature on the method
of discounted cash flow.
This is a method
that can be used
to evaluate the cost of a business.
The essence of this method
is that a business costs
as much as it is able to bring
to the buyer in the near future.
If a business is able to generate
a lot of money, then it costs a lot.
If a business does not bring
a lot of money in the foreseeable future,
then it costs little.
Let's say that we predict
that in the next four years
the size of the cash flow
will be like this.
We know that there is a concept
of the cost of money in time,
so we cannot just add
these four quantities.
We must first discount them.
The formula is very simple.
The future cost,
that is, these columns,
is divided by
1 plus r
to the power of n.
We get the current cost.
n is the number of periods,
so 1, 2, 3, 4.
r is the discount rate.
As a discount rate,
the average costs of capital
are used in this method.
How much does the average company
pay for the capital
it uses?
For the bank, for its own,
for the credit,
it can be calculated.
The average costs of capital.
We have discounted our columns
and we get the sum
that we compare
with these three blue sections.
The sum of material, financial
and non-material assets.
The non-material assets,
I emphasize, were evaluated
by the cost method.
If we get this amount
using this black method,
then we must add
the so-called
discount rate.
The discount rate
is the so-called
goodwill.
This is an English word.
Goodwill means
that there is a buyer
who is sane, has a clear memory,
he is fully informed
about what is happening
in our market,
and he is willing to pay
this amount for us.
In addition to the sum of
material, financial and non-material assets
that are evaluated by the cost method,
if we get this amount
using this black method,
that is,
less than the value
of material, financial and non-material assets
evaluated by the cost method,
we close the balance like this.
This means that part of the money
spent on creating non-material assets
has gone to waste.
And we close the balance
like this.
This means that we overestimated
our non-material assets.
But the common basic principle
that we must always remember
when writing accounting policy
and accounting for applicable assets
is the principle of healthy pessimism
or the principle of observability,
according to which we estimate assets
at a minimum of possible options.
At a minimum.
In the case of debts and obligations,
the principle of pessimism
is also observed,
but in this case it means
that we must evaluate our obligations
and debts to the maximum.
In this case, the principle of pessimism
is manifested in this way.
In particular, this applies to the assessment
of reserves that we have
in our obligations.
In general, there are two types
of reserves in business.
There is a reserve, which in English
is called provisions,
and this is, in fact, our obligation to someone.
And there are reserves that are
part of our own capital.
Here on this slide we see
the difference between them.
Those reserves that we have in our obligations,
in our debts, are called provisions.
They can be like this.
For example, a company
creates such an interesting
motivation system for staff,
and says, dear employees,
if you work well in our business
for 25 years and after retiring,
we can pay you a pension
together with the state.
You will receive a pension from the state
and from our company.
Accordingly, the company
creates reserves for pension payments
to its employees
that they will receive after retiring.
The question is,
if an employee retires at 60,
how much more will he last?
If the likelihood of his life
being up to 120 years is high,
then the company must
create a reserve for each employee
for 60 years,
and a monthly salary, and so on.
If the likelihood of this is low,
then we create a reserve for less years.
But it is better to take it with a margin.
The same is true if we create a reserve
for warranty service
of clients
to whom we sold some household equipment.
There is a certain likelihood
that all the household equipment
that we sold to clients in May will break down.
And we will have to repair everything
for some period of time.
But we take a certain period of time
that is quite likely for us.
We take the amount of household equipment
that is most likely to break down,
and take this into account
to create a reserve.
Again, a little bit with a margin.
We can include such reserves
in our obligations,
treating them as a duty of our company
to our employees or clients.
And there are reserves
that are treated as part of our own capital.
For example,
we have a reserve for the modernization
of the main equipment fleet.
Remember we said that we have a machine,
and we assume that it will not buy a replacement.
Therefore, we amortize the cost of purchase,
but we accumulate some amount
in order to have the opportunity
to buy a new version
that costs more than the version
that we are already using.
Here, in the reserve
on our own capital,
we can include a reserve,
for example, on a dubious
or debitor's debt.
The general formula of the balance
in the accounting is very simple.
The capital itself is the assets
estimated at a minimum,
minus the obligations estimated at a maximum.
Including the ProVisions reserves
that we create as debts
to our employees, clients, and so on.
These are the main rules
of the accounting balance
and accounting policy
regarding individual assets,
obligations, and our own capital.
The second document that is formed
in the accounting policy
is the report on profits and losses,
where we calculate our income
and expenses for a certain period.
In addition to this,
the accounting policy
also includes a report on the movement
of money funds,
where we collect information
about the income and payments of money.
It is important to understand
that we have to have a document
based on the principle of calculations
of income and expenses.
In the other hand,
we have a report on the movement
of money funds,
where we see everything
according to the cash method.
Let's look at this slide
to understand the difference.
So, there is a period
of January, February, March, April,
May, June.
In February,
the company was unloading
its clients
with a certain amount of goods
or services,
and in February,
the revenue is 100,000 UAH.
As for the movement of money,
we can see it
in the lower part of the slide.
As a prepayment,
the company received
50,000 UAH from its clients in January.
In fact,
the payment of 30,000 UAH in February
is 20,000 UAH as a debit.
Accordingly,
100,000 UAH is received in February,
and in January,
February, and March,
50,000 UAH in January,
30,000 UAH in February,
and 20,000 UAH in March.
The same is the case with the payment of expenses.
Let's assume that
in April the company took part
in an exhibition.
The participation in the exhibition
cost the company
a fairly large amount of money,
some 15,000 UAH.
The company paid the money
to the organizer
in April.
The tranche was paid
for 15,000 UAH at the same time.
This is evident in the report on the movement of money.
But in the management account,
we prescribe the account
of the so-called expenses of the future periods.
We want some kind of uniformity,
and therefore we spread
this amount for three months.
We recognize 5,000 UAH as expenses
in April, 5,000 UAH as expenses in May,
and 5,000 UAH as expenses in June.
If we take all this into account in April,
the profit in April
may be very small, or there may be a loss.
The profit in May and June may be large.
We want some kind of uniformity,
so we can spread
a fairly large amount of money
spent on the same exhibitions,
for example, on the same advertising,
in the management account
more or less evenly for 3-6 months.
Accordingly, in the report on the profits and losses,
in the expenses,
5,000 UAH will be in April,
5,000 UAH in May,
and 5,000 UAH in June.
And in the report on the movement of money,
it will be only in one place,
in the place where the tranche was carried out.
The money was paid out of the account in April.
The expenses in the management account
that are in the report on the profits and losses
are usually divided into four parts.
On the one hand,
the expenses can be divided into constant and variable.
This is very useful.
On the other hand,
the expenses can be divided into constant and variable.
Constant expenses are called
those expenses that do not depend
on the volume of our production.
It does not depend on the volume of our production.
If we have a brewery,
we have to pay for the rent,
so to speak,
amortize the capacity,
pay for the work fee of the accounting.
It does not depend very much
on how many liters of beer
we were able to brew and sell.
These are the so-called constant expenses.
What are variable expenses?
These are expenses that depend on
how many liters of beer the brewery
produced and sold in a particular period.
Accordingly, if there were many liters of beer,
then the variable expenses are large.
If there were few liters produced,
then the variable expenses are smaller.
On this graph,
we see that
constant expenses do not depend
on the volume of liters of beer produced.
Variable expenses depend.
If we sum up the variable expenses,
we get the total expenses,
which at some point
intersect with the revenue line.
When they intersect,
we register the so-called
point of non-profitability.
At this point,
the company, having produced
a certain number of liters of beer,
has reached zero.
That is, there is no profit yet,
but there are no losses.
Starting from this point to the right,
we start making profit.
The more profit to the right, the more profit.
It seems to me that many businesses
can benefit from
constant variable expenses.
Many businesses can ask themselves
what benefit
we can get
by transferring expenses
from constant to variable
or vice versa.
For example,
if I come to Moscow from time to time
and do not live here permanently,
it is probably more profitable
to use a hotel.
If I do it rarely.
If I come to Moscow all the time,
it is more profitable
to rent an apartment.
I can save money
by buying an apartment.
It is also a constant expense.
The same is true of a car.
If I rarely move from point A to point B,
it is easier for me to call a taxi.
These are variable expenses.
But if I constantly travel
on a certain route,
it is a constant expense.
Not all expenses in business
can be transferred from constant to variable.
But some can be transferred.
It is very useful
to understand the benefits of outsourcing
for your company.
The second cut of expenses
is direct and indirect expenses.
Direct expenses are those
that can be attributed
to certain types of products.
Indirect expenses are expenses
that cannot be attributed.
There are some types of expenses
that can be attributed
to a specific product.
They can be considered variable.
For example,
if we talk about a brewery,
the water, malt, hops
are considered direct expenses
when making a certain type of beer.
You can clearly determine
the amount of water,
malt, and malt.
They can be considered variable
because they depend on liters.
As for constant expenses,
we have some equipment
that is used
to make one type of beer,
but it is not used
to make another type.
It will also be direct expenses,
but they are constant.
Regardless of how many liters of beer
we have brewed,
there are constant expenses.
At the same time,
the salary of administrative services
will be constant,
but there will be indirect expenses
because it is impossible
to assign a certain type of beer
to a specific type of beer.
The field of variable and indirect expenses
will be usually empty.
I cannot think of
any example.
The report on profits and losses
in the administrative accounting
is usually made multi-stage.
For example,
a business has divided expenses
into constant and variable ones
and the system works like this.
Water gets into the basin
with the name of variable expenses.
Water is a revenue.
At some point,
the basin becomes full
and water starts to flow out of it.
If there is a lot of water,
it flows into the basin
that is below,
where the constant expenses are written.
If this basin is filled,
several drops of water
can flow out of it,
so that we can understand
what product in our portfolio
brings the amount of coverage
to the coverage of constant expenses
and how much profit
is left
after we cover
our constant expenses.
Here is a small example
of this topic.
The company calculates
the amount of coverage
for accounting objects,
and the accounting objects
are three types.
This is a product portfolio.
The company has a product group
of Hlzl and an S-class.
The company sells these two products
to two target groups
of men and women
in North and South Bavaria.
Let's assume
that we are talking about bicycles.
There are Hlzl bicycles
and S-class bicycles.
Both men and women
living in North and South Bavaria
have a product group of Hlzl
and an S-class.
First, we calculate the revenue
for each product
sold to a particular segment
in a particular region.
Then we calculate the expenses
that can be clearly attributed
to a particular product,
such as Hlzl or S-class.
Then we calculate the expenses
that cannot be attributed
to a particular product,
but can be attributed
to a particular product.
For example,
the advertisement of men's bicycles
was made in Men's Health magazine,
and the advertisement of women's bicycles
was made in Cosmopolitan magazine.
This can be clearly attributed
to a particular segment of men
and a particular segment of women.
Then we calculate the expenses
that cannot be attributed
to a particular product
or a particular group of customers,
but can be attributed
to the final profit
that the business earned
during this period.
We try to evaluate the direct profitability
of product groups,
customers and regions.
This is a very useful job
and a typical one for a management account.
After we have prepared
the accounting policy
of a management account,
after we have written down
all the principles and rules
of calculating assets,
obligations, capital,
income, expenses,
income, income,
and income of the money flow,
we should think about
how to organize it
from the point of view
of the account system.
The system itself
has a check-in mechanism.
It was invented in 1494.
But there are two
fundamentally different possibilities.
We can introduce all three triangles
within the same account system.
We can take a typical
government account plan
and modify it, adapt it
to the needs of the management account.
What does it mean to modify?
To write down sub-accounts
in order to make details
of the sub-accounts
that are not there.
We can make another
sub-account plan for the needs
of the management account.
We have an example in the materials
in the conspective.
The company produces office furniture.
It has chosen the second way
for the purpose of the management account.
It has made a sub-account plan.
It is made according to a simple scheme.
As a rule,
we register all our assets
in the account plan.
We can see that
the assets are listed
in the account plan
on the number 1.
Then we make the details.
1.1 is the current assets,
1.1 is the reserves, etc.
Under the number 2,
the obligations can be taken into account.
2.1 is the creditor's debt,
2.1 is the supplier's, etc.
Under the number 3,
the position of the capital will be taken into account.
For example,
3.1 is the established fund,
3.2 is the reserves.
3.3 is the unallocated profit.
Under the number 4,
all the income per period,
4.1 is the operating income,
4.1 is the revenue per product,
etc.
Under the number 5,
all our expenses.
5.1 is the materials,
5.2 is the salary, etc.
We need to make the details.
What are the benefits of the second
parallel accounting plan?
In my opinion,
there is only one
valid reason to do this work.
If our company is consolidated somewhere,
imagine,
there is some large international business
with an office,
a central office in Munich.
As part of this business,
there are a lot of
all kinds of structures and CFOs
scattered all over the globe.
Russian structures
account for 62% of the total.
Ukrainian structures
Polish colleagues
account for 62% of the total.
In Italy, 62% is not even counted.
Because all countries
have their own national problems.
There is a high probability
that the consolidator in Munich
will have a brain flow
when he will bring it all together.
He will definitely have a brain flow
and will be able to do internal audit.
Therefore, it is easier for him
to develop a single system of accounts
that is neutral for everyone.
Based on this simple version,
send it to the entrance
to the structural divisions of this company.
Accordingly, in companies that will be
managed by accounting,
accounting will be done within the state accounting plan,
and the accounting,
which then goes to the central office in Munich,
will be carried out in the management plan of accounts.
If our company
does not need to consolidate,
in my opinion, the accounting
can be done within the accounting plan of accounts,
but it should be finalized
for the purpose of accounting.
Detailization of accounts
and adding accounts
that are not there,
but which are needed in the accounting plan.
In conclusion, I would like to focus
on some organizational aspects
of the design of the function
of the accounting management
and accounting management in the company.
I would like to start
with a small company.
First, imagine
that we are talking
about accounting management
in a family.
The family is German,
these are my friends,
it consists of two people,
Stefan and Martina.
They live in the suburbs
of Munich.
Here they live,
in the suburbs of Munich.
They work in different places.
Stefan is a geodeticist by profession,
he has a small office
with a friend
in this suburb of Munich.
Martina works as a psychologist
in the clinic that is located here.
Neither he nor she is an accountant,
nor a financial planner,
nor a controller.
Once again, he is a geodeticist,
she is a psychologist.
They have a family car,
one for two.
If Stefan used his car
for work trips,
he would go along this route.
But he goes to work
by train,
arrives at the central station,
changes trains,
and so on.
So Martina needs a car
to go to work here.
You can get here by taxi
or by car.
But
Stefan is a mountaineer,
and he spends
every weekend in the Alps.
He usually takes his car
for a weekend trip to the Alps
to ski in winter,
to ride a bike in summer,
and so on.
Stefan and I
were in the Alps.
We came home,
he puts his car in the basement,
and takes out
a magazine.
A notebook in a box.
There are three columns
Stefan, Martina,
and Stefan plus Martina.
This is the date
27.02.2028, and so on.
I think you guessed
that Stefan, having driven
for kilometers on the highway
and then puts the car in this column,
and Martina, having driven for kilometers
on this route or some other route
for personal needs,
puts it in this column.
If they used the car
for family needs,
or Stefan went to
buy a car in a cash-and-carry metro,
he puts it in this column
because it was spent
for family needs.
This gives them
an opportunity to assess
the economic efficiency
of the structural divisions,
if not in terms of profit,
then in terms of gross income.
So, the revenue on Stefan minus
the direct costs on Stefan
is equal to the gross income.
The revenue on Martina minus
the direct costs on Martina
is equal to the gross income.
But there are some general-purpose costs,
for example, the rent of an apartment,
which they do not divide by the CFO.
These are indirect costs,
but there are no separate services
that deal with management accounts.
That is, each of them
has a small controller
inside that makes them spend
a certain number of minutes
in the evening to fix the figures
in Excel, to report
how much they spent on gasoline, for example.
In addition, they have a budget,
they have been dreaming
about their own apartment for a long time,
and their dream,
their apartment is drawn
on a piece of paper
with a magnet
attached to the refrigerator.
These are square meters.
Square meters.
You see,
as soon as they accumulate
another amount
enough to buy another square meter,
they can paint
another square.
Let's assume
that the prices for real estate
do not grow much
in Germany,
but there is a problem,
because Stefan is fond of Apple products.
As soon as a new product comes out,
he may not resist
and buy an iPhone.
After that, he comes home
and has to wipe out the painted square.
I am telling all this
so that we understand
that in small companies
there may not be separate services,
departments, brigades and positions,
but the function of the management account
and management accountability.
How much we spend, how much we earn.
But in larger companies
such a service usually appears.
I want to tell you about it on this slide.
So, when we have a larger company,
in terms of size,
we have a question
who from the structural units
to what extent to entrust this function,
the function of the management account
and management accountability.
Very often it is entrusted to the financial director.
He has a number of other questions
in the management instruction.
To manage the accounting,
to build relations with the capital market,
to manage the movement of money.
But in addition to this,
the function of the management account
is often entrusted to the financial director.
The second scheme on this slide
differs from the first.
It assumes that the function of the management account
is cut out of the subordination of the financial director
directly to the director.
The director is the one
who decides
whether the financial director
is subordinate to the director.
This is how German companies
often do it.
Because they understand
the function of the controlling
as the function of an internal advisor.
Maybe it will be appropriate
to make an analogy
with the novel
The Godfather.
If we imagine the organization
of this novel,
there was Don
who led a number
of structural units.
But he was a person
who could consult
with Don
as a staff body,
as a consul,
as an Italian advisor.
The function of the consul
is different.
On the one hand,
it is intended to ensure
that all the canons
that should be strictly observed
are properly observed.
In addition, this structure
collects all the information
and processes it
and puts it on the management
table along with the added value
and advice.
That is why some German companies
like to make such a structure
when the financial director
deals with accounting issues,
construction issues
with the market fund
and money management issues.
The function of the controlling
is in a separate unit.
The same is true
for the budget.
If the sales department
is going to Amsterdam,
what can be the procedure
for the approval of this business trip?
It should come to the controlling department
and check
whether this business trip was in the budget.
If it was not there,
there is a chance that the sales department
will not go.
The remaining funds
are enough to go to Amsterdam.
For example, the sales department
can take money from the adjacent
advertising articles or from
unforeseen expenses
that can be up to 5% of the budget.
It can also turn to the general
corporate reserve fund.
Anyway, this issue should be
agreed with the controlling department.
The controlling department monitors
the budget and conducts a management
account. By giving a waiver,
the treasury employees
can pay the travel
to Amsterdam.
This is how this procedure can be carried out.
It is very reasonable
to make this
separate structure
for the controlling
directly to the subordinate
management or shareholder.
A small example.
The company operates in the spare parts market.
It is built
according to the divisional principle.
The managing company has
three SBEs,
the so-called strategic business units,
which operate in different markets
selling spare parts,
both light and cargo.
The SBEs are made up of branches.
How was it decided
to designate this function?
We see that
the managing company has a finance department,
which includes
the general accounting,
the general contract group,
which deals with contracts
with suppliers and clients,
and the treasury, which manages
the movement of money.
These are all structural branches of the finance department.
There is a separate department
for controlling and risk,
which has three functions.
The managing account,
the budget, the company's budget process
and risk management.
The same logic is at the level of the SBE,
the strategic business units.
The business unit itself also has
a department for controlling and risk.
They are small,
but the logic is the same.
The small department of finance
consists of a small accounting,
a small contract group
and a small treasury.
There is also a small department
of controlling and risk management
consisting of a group
that leads the managing account
and coordinates the budget process.
If we go down to the branch level,
there is a finance director
who has an accounting,
a contract, a treasury,
a managing account, a budget
and a risk management.
This is at the level of the branch.
At the level of the SBE,
this is divided,
and at the level of the holding,
this is also divided.
This is the decision
on the organizational design
that was made in this business.
I am sure, dear listeners,
that if you do this job,